hi friends
In this video we are going to learn some
binary tree basics
So first see a linked list
In this Each node has a data path and a
link path which refers to the very next node
So how is a binary tree no different from this
Say this binary tree here
Here each node will have the data path and two
pointers left and right
Also tree is a non linear data structure but the
linked list was a linear data structure
So the tree is a hierarchical data structure and these
nodes are related here and the links between these nodes
are called the branches of the tree
Also if we have n nodes in a binary tree that
it will have n minus one branches say Here we
have 1234567 nodes and daughter so it must have exactly
seven minus one branches that is six and see
We have six branches here now The first node of
the tree which is having no parent is called the
root node of the tree that is the top
Most node is called the Route and the bottom
Most nodes which are having no Children are called the
leaf nodes or leafs and the nodes other than leafs
are called the internal nodes of the tree
Now each node is connected by an upper level node
and that is called the parent of that node that
is you can see A is connected to B and A is
connected to C so A is called the parent of
B and also of C and if the parent of
two nodes are the same then they are called the
siblings
Here parent of B and C is a so we
can say B and C are siblings
See another example
Parent of D and E is B so we can
say D and E are
Siblings and the three nodes are arranged in levels
The top most level is level one then level two
level three level for etcetera the root node will always
be on level one
Now let us discuss about descendants
So the descendants of a node are the nodes including
the Children of that node their Children and so on
simply the descent of a node can be it's
child
It's grandchild it's great grandchild etc
So here is an example of a descentant D
is a descendant of a since it is a grandchild
of a similarly an ancestor is a node which is the
parent or grand parent or great grandparents etc
So this is an example A is ancestor of B
since A is D's grand parent
Now let us discuss about the depth of the node
The depth of node is the number of edges
from the route to that node
see an example
The depth of node E is two since there are
two edges from route to D
Now the depth of G is also two because we
have two edges to G from the root
So that was the depth of a node
Now let us discuss about the height of a node
The height of a node is the number of edges
on the longest path from that node to a leaf
so see an example
Let us find the height of nodes C from C
we have paths to two leafs C to H and
C two G and from C two g
We have one edge and from C to edge we
have two edges so C to edge is the longest
path hence that will be the height of the node
So height of C is equal to two
Now let us find the height of node A which
is also the root here
And we have four paths to leafs from  A
to D A to E A to H and A to G
and the longest path is clearly from A to H
and we have three edges in this path
So the height of node A is three
So today we learn some binary tree basics first
We learn the term branches which are the links between
different nodes
And then we learn the relationships parent child Siblings
And then we learned about the levels than the height
of a node and depth of a node and also
we learned about descendants and ancestors.